---
layout: post
title: My Flinch
---

So I've been reading Julian Smith's _The Flinch_ lately, which is all about humans overcoming their instinctual fears, which aren't necessary in today's world. For example, we as humans have no reason to fear a cold shower, but we do anyway. This is because when we were less well-off, we associated cold with hypothermia, and hypothermia with death. As we have evolved grown to be more self-sufficient beings, we have lost all need for this fear of the cold. We hesitate, or _flinch_ as Smith would say, whenever we are forced to go out into cold weather, or hop into a cold shower.

This was actually one of the exercises in the book: to turn your shower to its coldest temperature, and hop in. The goal is to experience this flinch, and overcome it in a controlled environment. Smith claims that if you can overcome the flinch in a controlled environment such as this, you'll be more likely to overcome it in the future, no matter the circumstances. 

While jumping into a freezing cold shower this weekend definitely isn't my idea of **fun**, it helped me realize how much humanity depends on controlled surroundings. We've become so accustomed to waking up, going to work/school, and coming home, only to resume the same cycle the next day. After completing so many iterations of this cycle, we've rubbed away all the "sharp corners" that might hurt hurt us in our everyday grind. To put it simply, we get stuck in a cushiony rut.

If we can learn to apply our strategies of overcoming the _flinch_ in our showers, then perhaps we can learn to apply it in our daily routine as well. 

Have a flinch free day. 